README.md, before:

## Group_3_Janitor 

## **Janitor Package**

In this repository, you will find information about the package known as *Janitor* that Group 3 will be covering.


 Group members are: 
 1. Hannah Merges
 2. Lipi Kalpesh Patel
 3. Marisa Mackie
 4. Nicole Ayala
 
 
### *The Importance of the Janitor Package*

In the real world, most data sets are not as organized as we would like them to be. Therefore, packages like Janitor are extremely beneficial to be aware of as its main purpose is to clean up the data, making any data set amenable and reproducible. It is also user friendly, meaning that a beginner and an advanced R user alike can use this package to make coding less of a struggle or hassle and more fun!

### *These will be the 5 functions that will be covered...*

- top_levels() - discussed by Hannah
- tabyl() & its adorn() features - discussed by Nicole
- get_dupes() - discussed by Marisa
- get_one_to_one() - discussed by Lipi

### *Some other exciting functions **Janitor** has to offer*
- [Download this cheatsheet on janitor](https://about.gitlab.com/images/press/git-cheat-sheet.pdf)
- [More in-depth info about janitor](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/janitor/janitor.pdf)
- [Janitor's major functions](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/janitor/vignettes/janitor.html)

### *Before we get started*

1. First, get the data!
      - The Tidy Tuesday from March 14th known as European Drug Development
      - Please copy: (drugs.csv to your data folder)
2. Install Janitor
      - install.packages("janitor") #package to deal with cleaning up and structuring data
3. Load Your Libraries
      - library(tidyverse)
      - library(here)
      - library(janitor)
      - library(ggplot2)



Written by Nicole Ayala - 2023-03-22

Commit message:

added an article with more examples using janitor's functions

README.md, after:

## Group_3_Janitor 

## **Janitor Package**

In this repository, you will find information about the package known as *Janitor* that Group 3 will be covering.


 Group members are: 
 1. Hannah Merges
 2. Lipi Kalpesh Patel
 3. Marisa Mackie
 4. Nicole Ayala
 
 
### *The Importance of the Janitor Package*

In the real world, most data sets are not as organized as we would like them to be. Therefore, packages like Janitor are extremely beneficial to be aware of as its main purpose is to clean up the data, making any data set amenable and reproducible. It is also user friendly, meaning that a beginner and an advanced R user alike can use this package to make coding less of a struggle or hassle and more fun!

### *These will be the 5 functions that will be covered...*

- top_levels() - discussed by Hannah
- tabyl() & its adorn() features - discussed by Nicole
- get_dupes() - discussed by Marisa
- get_one_to_one() - discussed by Lipi

### *Some other exciting functions **Janitor** has to offer*
- [Check out this article for more practice using janitor's functions](https://towardsdatascience.com/cleaning-and-exploring-data-with-the-janitor-package-ee4a3edf085e)
- [More in-depth info about janitor](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/janitor/janitor.pdf)
- [Janitor's major functions](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/janitor/vignettes/janitor.html)

### *Before we get started*

1. First, get the data!
      - The Tidy Tuesday from March 14th known as European Drug Development
      - Please copy: (drugs.csv to your data folder)
2. Install Janitor
      - install.packages("janitor") #package to deal with cleaning up and structuring data
3. Load Your Libraries
      - library(tidyverse)
      - library(here)
      - library(janitor)
      - library(ggplot2)



Written by Nicole Ayala - 2023-03-22
